Manual (#615)
micro-nova/AmpliPi: docs/INSTALLATION.md

# Installation
## Overview
We understand you will probably be excited to power on your AmpliPro and try it out. To avoid damaging the unit, please read through this guide before installing and powering your AmpliPro unit!

WARNING!! VERIFY THAT THE VOLTAGE OF YOUR WALL OUTLET MATCHES THE VOLTAGE LISTED NEAR THE POWER INLET BEFORE PLUGGING IN.

> See the power section for more details on how to change input voltage.

Reviewer: We can not instruct our customers to open up the unit and change the power settings

## Mounting and unit placement

> Main Controllers and Zone Expanders both ship with built in 19" rackmount ears, so that they can be easily installed into a server rack with mounting screws (not provided).

Reviewer: I would add weights here for main and expansion units

Some things to keep in mind avoid overheating the unit:
- Don't block the vent holes on the side
- Don't allow dust to build up inside the unit to avoid overheating the unit. See cleaning instructions page for more detail.

## Speakers

> Each of AmpliPro's zone outputs can drive a 4-8 Ohm speaker pair, using the provided Phoenix connectors. Here is what the basic wiring diagram for a zone looks like:

Reviewer: speaker pair sounds a bit odd - singular speaker implies a single speaker - which for a dual coil is correct. I would say something along the lines of each zone has two speaker outputs. I'm curious - did you get this from another manual? B/C if thats what they say for other amps we can adopt it.

![Speaker wiring](imgs/manual/zone_speaker_wiring.png)

> AmpliPro's amplifiers are capable of driving 4-8 Ohm speaker loads in a stereo configuration. Here is what a typical stereo speaker connection, using CL2 rated 14-AWG speaker wire and the Pheonix connectors, looks like:

Reviewer: there is only stero config - the way you have it worded would make someone thing it can be configured for mono operation, which it can not be.

![Pheonix connector connection](imgs/manual/speaker_wire_to_pheonix.png)

To connect a stereo speaker pair, using speaker wire:

1. Strip 3-4 inches of the cable jacket, then strip 1/4 inch of insulation from the end of each wire.
2. Twist the frayed end of each wire to keep things nice and neat.
3. Unscrew each set screw to open the contacts, then insert and tighten down each wire one by one. Note that set screws loosen, but should not come out.
4. To avoid any shorts, make sure that there aren't any stray wire strands.

> 5. The speaker set can now be connected to one of the 6 zones.

Reviewer: We need to say a bit more about these connections. I would make a note that the speaker wire colors we show here are not universial and they should verify that they are properly pairing the - and + terminals with the speakers. IE do not connect + of one speaker and - of the other speaker to the amp right side output. I have actually had a customer do that before and it produced some really strange results. I had to go to toronto to troubleshoot it. The reason he did this was because he blindly followed the colored connections we showed in the manual, which were different than the colors the originally installer used when he ran the wires to the speakers. Come talk to me if you need some clarity on this comment...

- Amplified speaker ouputs **CAN NOT** be bridged, attempting to do so will damage the amplifier and void the warranty

### Runnning wire in walls and ceilings
- Most electric codes require the use of CL2 rated speaker wire for in-wall installations. Please refer to local building codes for more details.
- Avoid running speaker wire next to AC power wires as much as possble to reduce noise.
- When necessary, cross AC wires at 90 degree angles to avoid introducing any noise into the speakers.

### More Info

Much more information on speaker selection and installation can be the found in AmpliPro’s online documentation and question forums found at the end of this section.

## Preamp Outputs
Each of AmpliPro's zone outputs have a corresponding line-level preout output pair. These outputs can be used to connect powered subwoofers and other active/powered speakers.

The volume output of a preout is controlled by the corresponding speaker output. This allows a connected subwoofer to be controlled propoertionally to the speakers output in the same zone.

## Audio Inputs

> Each of the stereo RCA inputs can be connected to a different audio source, such as the output of a TV or a record player.

Reviewer: A record player!?!?! First of all WTF, second of all this actually isnt true, record players have a different level output that we prolly are not compatible with. I would update this to say smart speaker output (like an amazon echo link or something).

Expansion Units

> To increase the number of zones you can add expansion units to your system. You can add up to 5 additional zone expander units to a single AmpliPro main unit. Each expansion unit adds 6 zones or pairs of speakers. Zones attach to main units using the CHAIN IN/OUT connectors on the rear panel.These are included with each Zone Expander.

Reviewer: Missing space

## Network connection

> Connect an RJ45 cable to the Ethernet port on the main unit. Connect the other end to a port on your main network (likeliy on your router). The unit's IP address is configured by DHCP by default.

Reviewer: Can users set a static ip in the config?

Author: @linknum23

## Power
**WARNING!! VERIFY THAT THE VOLTAGE OF YOUR WALL OUTLET MATCHES THE VOLTAGE LISTED NEAR THE POWER INLET.**

> AmpliPro ships preconfigured for the typical mains voltage in your region, either 120V mains power or 230V mains; you can see what mode it was set to before shipment based on which box is checked near the power inlet on the unit EDIT EDIT EDIT. If your unit is preconfigured incorrectly for your region, several changes need to be made to the unit to connect to alternative mains:

Reviewer 2: edit this too, maybe even say to contact us if it's incorrectly configured?

> - Use an appropriate voltage power cable (AmpliPro only ships with the cable rated for the region)

Author: It originally said "for the region" so I kinda assumed we configured it differently if we sent it out to a different region. Can @gorski123 confirm?

> - Use an appropriate voltage power cable (AmpliPro only ships with the cable rated for the region)

Reviewer 3: or maybe @LegendaryMichael @mrahman313 ?

> - Use an appropriate voltage power cable (AmpliPro only ships with the cable rated for the region)

Author: Bump @gorski123 @LegendaryMichael @mrahman313

> - Use an appropriate voltage power cable (AmpliPro only ships with the cable rated for the region)

Reviewer: We configure it for the proper mains voltage for the region, the power supply can handle different frequency ranges. We cant say in the manual how to switch it. We can probably say something like 'contact us if your unit is configured for a mains voltage different from what you intend to run it on'

- Change the internal power supply fuse located in the IEC socket (located just above the power inlet on the exterior of the AmpliPro)
- Switch the internal power supply as needed (See below)

> Internally, there is a red switch on the side of the power supply that can be toggled for 230V. The easiest way to get at this switch is to take off the top cover. The power supply switch can potentially be accessed through the vent slots on the right side of the unit as well. Here are some pictures to help clarify the process:

Reviewer: absolutly can not tell people in the manual to stick pokey things through the vent holes into the box

Author: Idk, telling customers to stick pokey metal things at our power supply seems pretty rad to me

This section was vestigial from the original draft, I assume the idea was that our professional hobbyist DIY customer base would uninstall shit properly but we def can't have this anymore, you're right

![Power Supply Configuration](imgs/manual/power_instructions.png)

> Once the unit has the correct input voltage configured, plug the AmpliPro in to a wall outlet. The ON/STANDBY will start of blinking red then transition to solid red once the unit is fully powered on. Continue below to enjoy your unit!

Reviewer: will start of?

## Startup and Configuration
Now that the AmpliPro unit is powered on, it is time to play with it. Let's see what it can do:

> 1. Go to amplipi.local (Android and Windows 7 users will need to type the ip address found on the unit's display into their web browser to find the page).

Reviewer: We have apps now! Update this to point to the apps

2. You should now be connected to AmpliPro's mobile-friendly website. Please note that an https connection to the AmpliPro is not currently available since certificates have to be managed on a per-unit basis.
3. Android users can download the AmpliPi app in the Google Play Store.
4. Click the plus (+) icon and select a stream
    - The Groove Salad - InternetRadio stream comes preconfigured (needs an internet connection).
5. Change the volume on the zone you would like to output music on. Many of the zones will be hidden inside a group. Click on the different groups to see which zones belong to them.
6. You will probably want to change the default group and zone names and add different streaming sources. The gear icon (⚙) on the bottom right leads to the settings page where you can configure inputs, zones, and groups.

> Since AmpliPro is constantly improving, our manual may have been updated. Go to amplipi.com/getting-started or scan the QR code below to view the latest version of our manual.

Reviewer: Just say for more detailed info check out our online resources

Author: Is this a request to simplify the wording, or is it a request to simplify wording AND remove the link and QR code?

Reviewer: Simplify the wording, say for the most up to date information visit our website

Author: It's worth noting that the non-QR option at amplipi.com/getting-started isn't a real link or domain. We could register that to redirect to the manual on the main branch of github once we're put together, or I could change that URL to something else (say micro-nova.com/manuals)

> Since this was printed we may have added more features and made the AmpliPro better; this guide is continued at amplipi.com/getting-started. Use the QR code below to jump there now.

Reviewer 2: Different wording I think sounds better:
```suggestion
Since AmpliPro is constantly improving, our manual may have been updated. Go to amplipi.com/getting-started or scan the QR code below to view the latest version of our manual.
```
Also that link is broken so I'm just assuming it's the manual
